src/resources/help/_build/_static/* usr/share/portabase/help/_static
src/resources/help/_build/cs/*.html usr/share/portabase/help/cs
src/resources/help/_build/cs/*.inv usr/share/portabase/help/cs
src/resources/help/_build/cs/*.js usr/share/portabase/help/cs
src/resources/help/_build/cs/_sources/* usr/share/portabase/help/cs/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/en/*.html usr/share/portabase/help/en
src/resources/help/_build/en/*.inv usr/share/portabase/help/en
src/resources/help/_build/en/*.js usr/share/portabase/help/en
src/resources/help/_build/en/_sources/* usr/share/portabase/help/en/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/fr/*.html usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/fr/*.inv usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/fr/*.js usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/fr/_sources/* usr/share/portabase/help/fr/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/it/*.html usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/it/*.inv usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/it/*.js usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/it/_sources/* usr/share/portabase/help/fr/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/ja/*.html usr/share/portabase/help/ja
src/resources/help/_build/ja/*.inv usr/share/portabase/help/ja
src/resources/help/_build/ja/*.js usr/share/portabase/help/ja
src/resources/help/_build/ja/_sources/* usr/share/portabase/help/ja/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/*.html usr/share/portabase/help/zh_TW
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/*.inv usr/share/portabase/help/zh_TW
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/*.js usr/share/portabase/help/zh_TW
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/_sources/* usr/share/portabase/help/zh_TW/_sources
