src/resources/help/_build/_static/* opt/portabase/help/_static
src/resources/help/_build/cs/*.html opt/portabase/help/cs
src/resources/help/_build/cs/*.inv opt/portabase/help/cs
src/resources/help/_build/cs/*.js opt/portabase/help/cs
src/resources/help/_build/cs/_sources/* opt/portabase/help/cs/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/en/*.html opt/portabase/help/en
src/resources/help/_build/en/*.inv opt/portabase/help/en
src/resources/help/_build/en/*.js opt/portabase/help/en
src/resources/help/_build/en/_sources/* opt/portabase/help/en/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/fr/*.html opt/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/fr/*.inv opt/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/fr/*.js opt/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/fr/_sources/* opt/portabase/help/fr/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/it/*.html usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/it/*.inv usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/it/*.js usr/share/portabase/help/fr
src/resources/help/_build/it/_sources/* usr/share/portabase/help/fr/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/ja/*.html opt/portabase/help/ja
src/resources/help/_build/ja/*.inv opt/portabase/help/ja
src/resources/help/_build/ja/*.js opt/portabase/help/ja
src/resources/help/_build/ja/_sources/* opt/portabase/help/ja/_sources
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/*.html opt/portabase/help/zh_TW
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/*.inv opt/portabase/help/zh_TW
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/*.js opt/portabase/help/zh_TW
src/resources/help/_build/zh_TW/_sources/* opt/portabase/help/zh_TW/_sources
